The President:
Hi, everybody.
As I know you've noticed
over the past few weeks,
the price at your local pump
has been going up and up.
And because it's
an election year,
so has the temperature of
our political rhetoric.
What matters most to me right
now is the impact that rising
prices have on you.
When you've got to
spend more on gas,
you've got less to spend
on everything else.
It makes things harder.
So I wanted to take a minute
this weekend to explain what
steps my Administration is
taking when it comes to energy
-- most importantly,
producing more of it while using
less of it.
The truth is: the price of gas
depends on a lot of factors that
are often beyond our control.
Unrest in the Middle East can
tighten global oil supply.
Growing nations like China or
India adding cars to the road
increases demand.
But one thing we should control
is fraud and manipulation that
can cause prices to
spike even further.
For years, traders at financial
firms were able to game the
energy markets, distort
the price of oil,
and make big profits for
themselves at your expense.
And they were able to do all
that because of major gaps and
loopholes in our regulations.
When I took office, we
did something about it.
The Wall Street reforms I signed
into law are helping bring
energy markets out of
the shadows and under
real oversight.
They're strengthening our
ability to go after fraud and to
prevent traders from
manipulating the market.
So it's not just wrong, but
dangerous that some in Congress
want to roll back those
protections and return to the
days when companies like Enron
could avoid regulation and reap
enormous profits, no
matter who it hurt.
What's more, at a time when big
oil companies are making more
money than ever before, we're
still giving them $4 billion of
your tax dollars in
subsidies every year.
Your member of Congress
should be fighting for you.
Not for big financial firms.
Not for big oil companies.
In the next few weeks, I expect
Congress to vote on ending
these subsidies.
And when they do, we're going
to put every single Member of
Congress on record: They can
either stand up for the oil
companies, or they can stand
up for the American people.
They can either place their bets
on a fossil fuel from the last
century, or they can place
their bets on America's future.
So make your voice heard.
Send your
representative an email.
Give them a call.
Tell them to stand with you.
And tell them to
be honest with you.
It's easy to promise a quick
fix when it comes to gas prices.
There just isn't one.
Anyone who tells
you otherwise --
any career politician who
promises some three-point plan
for two-dollar gas -- they're
not looking for a solution.
They're just looking
for your vote.
If we're truly going to make
sure we're not at the mercy of
spikes in gas prices every year,
the answer isn't just going to
be to drill more -- because
we're already drilling more.
Under my Administration, we're
producing more oil here at home
than at any time in the last
eight years, that's a fact.
We've quadrupled the number of
operating oil rigs to a record
high, that's a fact.
And we've opened millions of
acres of land and offshore to
develop more of our
domestic resources.
Those are the facts.
We can't just rely on drilling.
Not when we use more than
20% of the world's oil,
but still only have 2% of the
world's known oil reserves.
If we don't develop
other sources of energy,
and the technology
to use less energy,
we'll continue to be dependent
on foreign countries for our
energy needs.
That's why we're pursuing an
all-of-the-above strategy.
As we develop more oil and gas,
we're also developing wind and
solar power; biofuels, and
next-generation vehicles --
and thousands of Americans have
jobs right now because of it.
We need to keep making
those investments --
because I don't want
to see those jobs go to
other countries.
I want to create even more of
them right here in the United
States of America.
And after three
decades of inaction,
we raised fuel economy standards
so that by the middle of the
next decade, our cars will
average nearly 55 miles
per gallon.
That's nearly double
what they get today.
That means you'll only have to
fill up every two weeks instead
of every week.
And that will save the typical
family more than $8,000 over the
life of the car --
just by using less gas.
Combined, these steps have
helped put us on a path to
greater energy independence.
Since I took office, America's
dependence on foreign oil has
gone down every single year.
In 2010, for the first
time in 13 years,
less than half the oil we used
came from foreign countries.
But we can do even better.
And we will.
What we can't do is keep
depending on other countries for
our energy needs.
In America we control
our own destiny.
And that's the choice we face
-- the past, or the future.
America is what it is today
because we've always placed our
bets on the future.
Thanks, and have
a great weekend.